[Music]
hey let's go
let's go
good morning good afternoon good evening
where are you coming from hope you all
are doing well
yeah
yeah what's going on everybody
welcome back welcome back hope you all
are doing well happy
thursday
we outside we online let's go everybody
[Laughter]
we had so many new folks today
uh
coding pearl said i'm on the ketchup
crew number the opportunity to join live
hey welcome coding pearls glad you could
join us
rufio
rubio rufio rufio rufio with the raid
112. folks coming through with the raid
there's no better way
to start off your day
you got some time before the stream
before we're here for class you know
where you should be
should be on the stream teams
hello it's rufio's
stream right before this one what are
you doing
what are you doing
139 before the raid i love it i love it
glad to see it
stream teams been popping off recently
folks
stream teams been popping off
but you got to you got to love it you
got to love it
thank you for the raid thank you for
bringing the whole crew over
a lot of new folks tonight in chat
where are you all coming from i'm
curious
we have been we have been popping off a
little bit on youtube that's i will say
we've we've been 1k gang all all day
long i'm not
not doing anything special
but uh we see a lot of new folks coming
from youtube i appreciate everybody that
goes over to youtube that likes the
videos it does really help folks find us
uh but yeah
welcome everybody if you're really new
and because i see a lot of first i get
to see like first time chat um
if you're new welcome ah a lot of catch
up crew i see y'all i see y'all
uh if you're new around these parts
we're running a 30 week software
engineering boot camp from beginning to
employed
last cohort got hundreds of folks jobs
this cohort
the number of folks getting jobs already
number of folks getting clients already
it is
wild
glad you're all here shout out to the
ketchup crew
that's catching up i love to see it
tonight we got some bangers folks guys
some bangers tonight some big news some
fun news some things to share and then
we're gonna get a review in no big words
tonight we're going to review oop no big
words
once we go through our review we're
going to build out some objects together
we're going to extend some classes we're
going to put encapsulation abstraction
inheritance and polymorphism into play
do it together
and then we're going to jump on
remo
we're going to jump on discord and do it
together
oh boy
we got some review we got some things to
do
[Laughter]
and then we're gonna try and do it
together
all right
you know how we like to do i always like
to start off with some questions the
question of the day
getting your first client sign today
minty fresh hey congrats
question of the day is what is your
favorite
candy
and for folks that don't do candy
because there's some folks that don't do
candy what's your favorite fruit
favorite candy favorite candy favorite
candies in chat for me please
oh okay
reese's gang is coming through
it's it's pretty heavy it's it's pretty
overwhelmingly reese's
gummy bears sour straws
snickers twizzlers
twix
airhead bites they what are airhead
bites
i choose odd dude hi chooser legit
sweets
kitkats sweetest fish
almond joys
wow all right so reese's snickers is
kind of like leading the way here it's
pretty wild
take fives twix bars twix are pretty
pretty up there
my favorite right now is definitely sour
patch kids
sour patch kids are like my my jam right
now
got a lot of pb
anything with peanut butter and
chocolate all right
oreos all right like i said yes
not really i mean we'll get there
you say peppermint you deserve spinach
in your mouth what
remember fun dip oh man fun dip was a
problem back in the day
you know you know know what no one's
interesting about fun dip
i enjoyed
i enjoyed the sticks more than i enjoyed
the sugar
the sugar is okay
but the sticks
those white sticks
yeah that was that that's what you went
to the fun dip for
just all caps nasty
[Laughter]
all righty folks thank you for sharing
your favorites your favorite candy it's
always good to see i get to get to see
what the community's into i love it i
love to see it all right if you got any
real questions as folks get in here i
know folks are always running from work
that's okay let's give them a second to
get in here questions you got questions
hopefully i got some answers then we're
getting into a lot of fun stuff to talk
about right off the rip tonight we're
gonna go through a review and then get
on
um either remo or discord to work with
each other it's a project night after we
do some review
what is fun dip is it like dunkaroos fun
dip is a literal packet of sugar
and a white candy stick
and you would lick the stick
right you would lick the stick
put it in the sugar
and then like eat the sugar off of this
white like candy stick so it was literal
bags of sugar
[Laughter]
a different ghost in the house hey thank
you for the five get themselves hope
you're doing well thank you for being
here good to see you
should we be able to build tic-tac-toe
by ourselves at this point
no i think there's gonna be a range of
folks i feel like there's some folks
that could probably get close on their
own and there are some folks that might
struggle on their own with tic-tac-toe
uh tonight if you have extra time it'll
be some time to continue on with
tic-tac-toe and make it as oop as
possible um
so i don't want to say that you should
feel super comfortable where i want
everyone to be is that you should feel
comfortable starting i think the biggest
problem when folks when we first start
getting to these projects the projects
feel really overwhelming with a new
group yes ideally with a new group the
projects feel overwhelming and we let
that that overwhelming feeling
stop us from getting started and so
that's something when we start doing
these project nights that's something i
really want you to work through if you
know that if you know that you're
someone that gets the the prompt and you
kind of freeze deer in the headlights we
gotta work through that right
and the only way you honestly really
work through it is to do more projects
do them with more folks and and really
work on that idea
i think when we look at things like the
tic-tac-toe everyone jumps to like these
really optimized solutions when
tic-tac-toe is really just an event
listener you hear an event you put
something into the dom if you've been
doing a lot of the problems the homework
you should feel comfortable with
building a smurf or an event listener
and then putting something in the dom
you could build tic-tac-toe with just
event listeners and a really big
conditional and that would be
tic-tac-toe right and so i think we got
to get over this um
uh we got to get over this hump of like
i can't start don't know what to do
because you do and then as you get more
projects underneath your belt you'll do
things in a more and more sophisticated
way right and so we gotta we gotta keep
getting these projects going we gotta
keep getting the homework going so we
can get over that initial hump of like
deer in the headlights and keep working
it out
yeah drock said it's too early in the
process for perfect solutions exactly
we're here to get the job done we don't
care what it looks like we're baddies we
write bad code
definitely definitely agree getting
started is what i struggle with the most
i agree getting started can definitely
be the hardest part
do the twitch geo api for the chat i
never heard of that before
i'll look it up
literally writing code will help you get
better at writing code 100 agree exactly
and different
all right
code wars can be really discouraging
absolutely um when you first start code
wars it's not easy
starting code wars is hard um but if you
stick to eight cues
you stick to the fundamentals track and
you stick to doing the same problems
like all array problems all string
problems you start to see the patterns
you start to get better at it remember
our rule is 20
minutes 20 minutes if you spend more
than 20 minutes you need to stop look at
the solution and spend more time on the
analysis than you did trying to solve it
you do that for a long time right
if you do that for a while you do that
every day for a couple weeks cold war
starts to feel start to get a little fun
you start to recognize the patterns you
start to be able to do things
if you don't feel comfortable doing them
by yourself yesterday mine wolf wolf
pack was working through the code wars
ladder that was the push homework so
they did the eight the seven the six the
seven the eight live on stream i'm
telling you folks if you're if you
haven't turned notifications on for the
stream team
you're uh you're you're missing out
missing out folks
went from not knowing what to doing
one-liners hey turn up
[Laughter]
alrighty it's been helpful i agree
already folks let's get into it lots of
cool stuff to talk about tonight a
little bit of review then some project
time
all right let's get into it
checking in please if you haven't
checked in please go ahead and check in
uh a like and a retweet on the tweet
please if you're here please just go
ahead and do the like and the retweet
helps folks find us we got a lot of new
folks in chat uh i definitely know that
that's coming from twitter and youtube
so i appreciate y'all checking in
helping folks find us and uh also lets
me know that you're here for attendance
so that when it comes time to end the
program we get you into all the good
things we want to get you into
all right thank you for checking in i
remember when you just type when you do
exclamation point check-in in chat that
doesn't do anything it just gives you
the link that you have to click the link
and go there and do it
i wonder if the twitter api would allow
us to do that
like could can is like is there like i
don't even know i'm gonna assume like
hell no but it'd be cool if we could
like write something that when people
type check in it actually like liked and
something you know yeah i don't think
that they would let that happen but
that'd be cool if we could
all right
if we miss some live streams but watch
the vodge we still retweet hell
yeah yes please if you are watching us
through the vods or you're watching us
on youtube still go ahead and give that
like and that retweet folks that are
part of the ketchup crew i still want
you to have access to the things that
happen at the end of program where we're
gonna get you references where we're
gonna get you the end of program support
that you need but we need to know that
you've been here so even if you're
watching us on youtube go ahead make
sure you go back to that tweet you like
retweet it that way we know that you
watched it
all right
newsletter
uh we have we have the sign up for the
newsletter i'm still in big leon
if you haven't signed up for the
newsletter there's nothing in there
today
but next week
next week
you're going to want to be in the
newsletter
just saying next year you're going to be
on the newsletter i'm just i'm going to
know i'm letting you know i'm saying hey
next week newsletter so just letting you
know ahead of time because some people
are like leon i didn't know about the
newsletter you never told me nah this is
your warning
you don't want to be in that newsletter
and once again do an exclamation point
newsline doesn't do anything
it doesn't do anything you got to click
the link and go sign up
all right
this uh weekend this sunday we do not
have
uh office hours on sunday
right
um cadecio said if i'm just starting now
should i join live or
should i wait to start this from day one
uh feel free to hang around we got some
cool announcements tonight um and then
yeah definitely
start with class one join the catch-up
crew on discord uh that's a great study
community for you to be a lot part of as
you kind of catch up and move through
the material
all of our classes are on youtube all
the materials and the follow-on
materials channel on discord
boom
all right
this sunday is mother's day so uh no
office hours on sunday uh don't forget
to call your mothers to argue
and then on monday we are going to be
doing a get bowl where we're going to be
spending
uh
a probably about a normal class amount
of time about three hours
reviewing git and github
doing everything that you need to know
to
fork to clone to contribute to projects
to submit your homework we're going to
go through all that stuff together that
way if you're not feeling too
comfortable getting github you'll have a
chance to do it together live it'll of
course be recorded it'll go up on
youtube but it's always fun if you join
us live
cool
no worries pin no worries pin
all right
networking starts up again next week
yes networking starts up again next week
we're going to take our time we're going
to go slow we're going to start off with
one connection right just just getting
dipping our toes back into it building
back up to it getting into the groove
don't worry we're going to start slow
uh for folks that uh have trouble
networking we're gonna talk about a lot
of alternatives next week things you
could be doing to interact with folks
via text things you could be doing to
network that don't require you to show
up and talk to people so
next week networking comes back
right
if you know that you're one of the folks
that have a little bit of the anxiety
with the networking or you feel like
it's something that that's that's hard
to do it's all right we're gonna come up
with some alternatives next week uh to
help those folks
and
one really important thing that i really
want to say is that if networking is
something that causes like it's
something that is not possible
right not every one of us has the
privilege of being able to network right
some folks really do have situations
that will preclude them from networking
only you know if that's you or not
please don't ever do stuff that's going
to bring harm to yourself both
physically and mentally
we will find things that you can do that
give you an edge when it comes time to
the job hunt that aren't just this but i
will say networking is one of the best
things you can do to get a job your code
quality the ability to code is often not
the thing that gets you the job is the
folks that you know and network with
that can help seal the deal so it's
really important but i really want to
make sure that was said so that if you
are one of those people we'll find
things that work for you too
that's all coming back next week folks
all right
you heard simba jingle
uh simba
simba is posh now
simba's posh he has uh he has an air tag
and so you heard the the air tag jingle
yeah
so the the the the the normal tags are a
little jiggly now
all right
wait a minute leon what's that date what
is this what
huh
what's what
what
[Music]
what what's that
is that does that say hold on
i say 17
let's say 17 it does
so today was supposed to be the deadline
for your client project i'm going to
give you an extra week and some change
extra week and some change please
so i know a lot of folks are like super
cool she grinded out this past week i
saw you on discord i saw you on twitter
talking about it i respect the hustle
and so since i saw so many folks like
coming up to the wire so many folks that
we're grinding and out we'll push the
deadline
a week and some change right a week and
some change just to get it so you can
get those contracts signed uh so you can
you can get across the finish line uh
together and so we'll push it just a
week and some change
go hard in this week i saw so many of
you uh it was literally the things that
made my week seeing how close so many
folks were so let's get let's give it a
little a little bit more time a week and
some change just to to get it across the
finish line uh
to handle the ghosting of some clients
either give you a little bit more time
and then um
remember there are client alternatives
if for some reason you cannot get a paid
client there are alternatives you can
volunteer for a grassroots org and when
you volunteer for a grassroots org
please still do the same process
especially if you're gonna do stuff for
free right if you're gonna do stuff for
free
then the the power is in your hand right
make sure you're still giving a proposal
make sure you're still giving them a
contract make sure that they are still
agreeing to be the best reference
customer that has ever existed or you
ain't doing stuff for free
right
and so
make sure that you still go throughout
the normal process that we get that
experience the experience is why we're
doing this to get that experience make
sure you go through the same process
and also remember that contributing to
free software open source software also
counts
i don't care how big or how small
or
how well-known the project is you
contribute to free software you're doing
good in my book
exposure doesn't pay the bills exactly
exposure doesn't pay the bills
these are
simply alternatives for folks that
cannot get a paid client
and you're still getting stuff out of
this volunteering because they're going
to be the best reference customer you've
ever experienced
cool
oh that's an awesome project
all right
uh this past week i so last week i was
super busy last week i'm catching up as
fast as i can this week i'm really close
i dug myself out of the ask leon channel
uh everyone that posted in the
askingleon channel you have an answer i
always answer every question in the ask
leon channel sometimes it takes me a
week but i get there
so i'm super close got through all the
all the uh
askleon questions i'm clearing up mod
mail so by end of day tomorrow mod mail
will be cleared out as well and um
yeah super super close almost done
responding to everybody
also
t-shirts and things are starting to come
in from the raffle winners and so if you
won a raffle recently you should hear
from me if you haven't heard from me yet
give me until friday that's when all the
last folks will hear about it
we have t-shirts coming in so shipping
should start going out next week
all right
oh i have it so i don't know i haven't
have it further
we'll we'll make sure we go over the
project winners
and the portfolio winners and we'll do
the pokemon cards tonight as well so
we'll that'll that'll all happen uh in a
few minutes i got y'all
all right
fresh start
what does it mean for a fresh start leon
well
a fresh start means that a lot of folks
have been really worried
they said hey leon
i i miss the homework or two
or i missed a check-in or two and i
really still want all the wonderful
stuff that's going to happen at the end
of program like i still want to
participate in the job board i still
want to participate in getting
references i still want to participate
and and and verifying that you're at 100
i want all that good stuff that's going
to help me get a job
and we know to get all those wonderful
post-program benefits you got to do a
few things
you got to get the homework in you you
gotta you gotta do the attendance you
gotta like in you gotta retweet right
you wanna all these beautiful wonderful
things are gonna help you get the job at
the end
of the program
you gotta do all these things and i i
know some folks have missed a few so
tonight
is a fresh start
i don't care if you missed any homework
i don't care if you missed any check-ins
i don't care if you missed a retweet or
two
the slate has been wiped
clean
slate's been wiped clean
uh you have going forward now the
expectation that you get the homework in
and going forward you have the
expectation that you like and retweet
including starting tonight but if you're
somebody that was panicking about the
past it doesn't exist
we all go forward with the same slate
that this is your chance
your chance to be all right if i if i
wasn't there in the beginning i can get
in now
i can go hard over the next couple of
weeks and and and get the same benefit
so
slate's been wiped clean we got a fresh
start we got to do our gucci dance you
know
but uh yeah placement while you're clean
alrighty
if
you have not joined our
code wars clan you're missing out on
some cool stuff that's gonna start
happening next week
so
um
next week uh folks at the top of the
code wars clan we'll be getting discord
special discord colors i'm not sure if
it would be gold or some other color but
the folks at the top of our of our of
our disc sorry of our code wars clan uh
we'll be getting uh special colors
and vip here on
twitch and you're like leon there's no
way i can catch up to motherboard or our
you see this folks
do you see this folks
hold on i gotta put my demo pro on
you see this folks hold on
not only do they have
an amazing job
right amazing software engineering job
not only
are they a mod extraordinaire
not only are they our new director of
community
but they're dustin y'all in code wars
too
that's right
laws out here vlogs out here uh-huh
uh-huh putting in work
putting in work
uh so
folks at the top of the
of the of the code wars clan uh if
you're not part of the code wars clan
you can do exclamation point clan
and that'll give you the link to our
well sorry it'll give you the the piece
to put in the clan notice that the whole
clan name
is octothorpe 100 devs hyphen
leonwell.com twitch that is the full
cold wars clan if you're just in 100
devs or something else you're in the
wrong clan so folks at the top of the
clan they're going to get
the the lovely colors in vip
but what we're gonna do is we're gonna
take a snapshot of the clam
and the folks that have the greatest
improvement
will also
get the special colors
and vip so we're gonna have some folks
for folks at the top of the of the
leaderboard but we're also gonna look at
the folks that improve the most
get the most
in over a certain period of time
we're to do this probably monthly we're
going to do this monthly like once a
month we'll take a look at it
and um
we'll work on it
you said leon what a day i did
hey
bernie jean thank you for the five kids
it subs i appreciate that thank you for
being here
i did but some folks got more time and
they want to have some fun and we're
about having some fun too and if you
want to have some fun by doing some cold
wars well you get some perks baby you
get some perks
and so you don't have to be the best
you can be the most improved you know
what i'm saying
there we go
just to have some fun all right so
that's that's on your mind
uh join the clan if you haven't yet uh
it's really cool to see it's no it's so
cool
to be like looking at solutions and i'm
like i know who that is that's 100 devs
that's 100 deaths right like you just
see the you see all the solutions that
we're submitting now i'm like yup that
was 100 devs they did that yep 100 devs
they did it 100 devs did it
and uh i don't know
i don't know if you noticed
but uh on the code wars newsletter
our very own the first the first
article they mentioned in the newsletter
was blah's article on how to do code
wars so we out here folks we outside we
online
uh we we all over the place so in code
war's own newsletter blah top person the
people are highlighting 100 devs folks
we out here folks we outside we online
let's go
saying
saying we taking over what can i say
best place to learn code live online we
got you
all right
uh it's almost a meme at this point but
we gotta announce the project
winners and i have some pokemon raffles
to do i'm gonna do them real quick we
got four of them or five now because i
just saw brian budd uh redeemed one as
well
uh
the project winners there are a lot of
projects and remember this is supposed
to be the funnest projects to me
um this project really blew blew me away
not only was it fun not only was it
clever and creative
but the code was good and not only was
the code good but the the comments they
commented every line you can really tell
this group worked together uh it was
really fun so
the group that made
pizza sweeper
why is it not loaded pizza sweeper uh
you won the project competition uh i
will be sending you all messages
by friday
you are all getting t-shirts uh pizza
sweeper is pretty fun uh you can play
minesweeper if you ever play minesweeper
before uh you can see what happens when
you lose
this is papa john's that pops up of
course papa john's is the mines here
which i thought was pretty fun uh you
can see the folks that that um
made it down below so i'm going to plop
this into chat real quick just so you
can all
see the fun pizza game
i'm sure we're probably going to take it
down but that's good um so this was fun
the really cool part though like if we
inspect
and uh i just thought it was really cool
i thought it was really fun
i love that they called them pizza
weenies because they knew they went a
little too hard in the paint on this one
i respect that to know that this is not
what was expected they went hard
so i recognized i love that they called
themselves pizza weenies loved it
um and then if you look at this code
folks
look at this code let's close this x
down here
look at the comments
look at the comments oh my gosh it's
just so pretty
and they're funny too they're funny
this runs everything baby
uh i just loved it i thought it was
really cool it was really clever
um
it was a lot of fun as well commented it
was clean code
i love that they were talking about
i loved they were talking about they did
recursion and they they did recursion
and then like halfway through their
recursive function like i don't think we
should have done recursion anymore
[Laughter]
hey welcome
uh so i thought that was pretty fun uh
so definitely this is the winner there
are so many other great ones though i
loved all of the sound board projects uh
we'll find some time hopefully next week
to like highlight some of the other
projects a pizza sweepers you won
there's also supposed to be the funnest
portfolio uh so we have one more winner
that will also get a t-shirt and then
that that we're done with t-shirts for a
while folks uh there's actually only one
more chance to get a 100 devs t-shirt
and that is
tomorrow
at fox's newest member of the stream
team stream so if you want your last
chance to get the og 100 devs t-shirt uh
before we do the before like we won't do
we'll do another merch drop in the near
future but you won't those those shirts
won't be in stock anymore so if you want
the og shirts you got one more chance
tomorrow 11 a.m they're going for a long
time they say like 11 to 6 tomorrow uh
it'll be your last chance to get the
t-shirt uh project winner
uh sebastian i love this portfolio it's
such a good portfolio
um they had the little the little the
little the little you know the little
little sauce here on the right but when
you go down i loved it they talked about
themselves sebastian one change
one change please
get rid of this opening line
being young without the ability to
afford college get rid of it just just
talk your talk going with the heat i
decided to start my professional career
by learning 3d design by myself start
with that get rid of that boop get rid
of that bring the heat
right
i love the the quirky like the the the
the quirky layout i i love the
the projects that they worked on this
project looks uh mighty familiar
looks mighty familiar
but it looks clean don't it cuts and
shaves the barber's point i love it
look at that
and then look at this
this this this this restaurant hey
look at this italian cuisine restaurant
site oh
crispy and then they put something that
they do on the side they do a lot of 3d
modeling i love when you add a little
bit more to your portfolio that shows
your hobby or interest
and so these are pretty good i i love
this portfolio because if you were here
if you've been doing the work you've
already built something that looks
exactly like this restaurant site you
build something that looks like this
barber site and you can see how clean it
can look on your portfolio
and how well they could stand out so i
love this portfolio i thought the layout
was dope the little little accoutrements
are dope i love that you can switch to
different languages uh and it ah
there you go
loved it all right sebastian you'll get
a message from me you're getting a
t-shirt as well and so that concludes
the the projects and portfolio uh we
have five pokemon card raffles to do
um
bring up the lists
so here are all the cards that are up
for grabs
and
i have a list of folks that need the
cards
all right so we got one two three four
five we need to do we need to do six
we're gonna do them real quick and then
we're gonna get into the some really big
news
we're gonna do six raffles
uh and then we're gonna do um some
really big news so
brian budd
was the most recent one all right there
we go so this is for is raj israez
i-z-r-a-j
uh this this first raffle is for you
so
i'm gonna open up an inspector here
console
math.seal
math.random
and we're gonna times that by how many
do we have left here
if we get one two or three you get the
top level card so one two or three gives
you the top level card
out of 58.
let's go ahead and do this
this code look good chat
this code look good is this is this
correct
how is this working uh so you can redeem
your channel points for a pokemon card
uh it's i believe it's 50k right now
and you have to be the first person of
the stream to do it
all right
let's run it this is for
is raj
let's see what that is
51 is a pokemon communication
so pokemon communication is going to you
cool let's do this next one here
come on communication
i'm gonna edit it on my end so that we
know that we go down from three to two
here
awesome all right next next one we're
gonna do it again
13 and this was for
this is just going in order of folks
that redeemed
so this is for
gaming johnny
dino gaming johnny dino you got 13.
so that is
uh islip and so let's go ahead and make
sure you got that marked there congrats
it's a
that's a pretty dope card not gonna lie
all right some of these values have shot
through the roof some of them have
tanked we're all over the place in value
so these are like really old
um
that's going to you next person up is
boro057 we have to remove the azlip from
here
i actually want to pronounce that
pokemon's name
there we go
i just knew that i i
i really needed that card for a certain
deck
and i um
i'm not happy what i did i went to
target
i went to target and i was just randomly
pulling cards hoping to get the card
before i went to a tournament yeah it
was it was not a good look
i had a problem back in the day yeah
all right so that was removed we got
this is this next one up is for
boro057
let's go ahead and run it again now it's
going to be out of 57.
27. let's see what that was
27 was palkia nice palkia coming your
way
beautiful gonna update it on my end here
all these channel points folks
all these channel points
all right
next one will be out of 56
and this one is for
gaming zeke the caddo gaming zeke the
caddo
this one's for you
five whoo
what do we got
oh
nice
this is a this is a dope card
this is a dope card
you got the the the the two-piece card
the legendary bottom
congrats on that card that's that's
that's a hard card to come by these days
wow
and you know what
you know what
i can't split them
can't split them
can't i can't do it
can't do it
can't split i can't i can't i can't
split them up you know
oh
you're getting both you're getting the
top and the bottom
that's like that's that's really
expensive cards you're getting both both
coming your way
[Laughter]
well done well done
uh soup sheep this one next one is for
you soup sheet this is for you and we
are at 54.
soup sheet out of 54.
and then we got we got one more to do
and then we're going to get back to
regular programming here 40 what do we
got on 40 here
oh litwick litwick coming your way soup
sheep litwick coming your way
and i got a bunch of new cards coming in
soon not yet but maybe we'll add some
soon
litwick
all right and last one this evening this
is for brian budd brian bud this is for
you
uh this is out of 53 now
boom 31 what do you got what do you got
coming your way
oh rushy ram oh it's one of my favorite
cards too reshiram coming your way
beautiful
and that concludes our pokemon drawings
today
thank you everyone for for
gaining so many channel points
you don't get that many channel points
unless you unless you're hanging out
folks so
thank you and delete that boom
boy got t-shirts coming for pizza
sweeper
got sebastian with the fire portfolio we
got pokemon cards going out we're just
getting started folks we're just
getting
started
[Laughter]
alrighty
last uh we have some other updates just
while we're here
uh we have a new channel uh we used to
have a private lbgt channel uh we have
sunset at that channel is now archives
and we now have a public one so uh feel
free to start joining that channel
to um
hang out and
we have some other stuff that'll be
happening soon on discord as well so
over the next couple weeks you'll see a
couple new channels uh we're starting
with that one as promised so
get in there have some fun
and yeah we'll have some other updates
for discord next week too
alrighty
big news
we're we're we're not we're not going to
do the music for this one it's big news
because it's something i've been working
on for a very long time it's something
that we started the idea of last time
this cohort and um
the big news is that we're ready to
start
the agency
we're ready to start the agency it's
been a long time
coming
it's been something that i've been
working on for a long time with uh so
many different folks that need to kind
of make to do this right
long-term goal is to have an agency
component to 100 devs
to add validity to the program but to do
a lot of other things
um
why why why start an agency why have an
agency a part of this well
i believe super super deeply that
education should be free
but i also believe that education should
be stipended
meaning that you should be able to make
money while you are learning and i think
education should be practical
an agency gets us closer to
a couple of these goals everything i do
you know will be 100 free i'll never put
any of my content behind a paywall
none of that nonsense
but i know folks can get clients
and so that's one way you can you can
make money when you're going through
this program
but we also have a lot of folks that
have been reaching out that want to
build larger projects that are looking
for engineers that come to me and they
say hey leon can you help me build this
project and before i used to say
not in not now not yet got too much
stuff going on but now the answer's
gonna be yes
and the idea is to build an agency
completely in the open so everything
will be in the open all the work will be
in the open the clients will be in the
open um
the
[Music]
the the the money coming in will be open
uh
the goal is to be able to work on stuff
for clients but as an educational tool
right so
the way it will work is that we will
have clients come in
we'll break those tasks down into
smaller tasks
then you can contribute to those tasks
and then at the end the project will be
broken up however much money came in
will be broken up to the folks that
contributed and nobody's ever really
done this before
it's not something that like
there's a path that we can follow so
we're gonna try it
it's never been done we're gonna try
we're gonna see how it works um
it may all flounder but at least we'll
do it in the open will it will be a path
for other folks that might want to try
to do something the same
and then it also accomplishes this goal
of being practical i want folks to be
able to have real development experience
i want you to have worked with real
clients for real clients building real
projects that have meat behind them that
have deadlines behind them
and so the goal of the agency is to do
all of that so
we're working really hard on it you're
going to start seeing things pop up
starting next week our agency site's
going to go live we're going to start
bringing in the first few clients that
have been asking to work with us
we're going to start seeing those those
agency projects get broken down into
smaller pieces we're going to start
seeing tickets that you can work on
and eventually in the long run i think
it'll be a really cool way for
folks to not only get practical
experience but a little bit of money too
as you're going through a learning
experience
so
lots of little things to cover lots of
little things to get through
but i want you to know like the big
things that i'm working on and this is
one of them
all right
cool
education should be free it should be
more than just free it should be paid
and it should be practical i think the
agency solves all of this
yeah
cool
uh a little bit about yeah i kind of
talked about this a little bit already
um but everything will be done in the
open uh there's there's there's kind of
like building and working in open but i
believe a company could also be built
completely in the open so
you'll start seeing me doing streams
that aren't just class but like oh if
we're working on a client project we
should probably build that client
project live right let bl people be able
to see it i want i want real projects to
be out there that you can see that you
can look at the code you can touch and
understand and feel like i feel like
there's this gap between boot camp
projects and real projects and nobody
actually ever shares real projects
and so why not do those live why not
work on those projects live why not find
clients
that want the clout as we're working
through stuff live on twitch that we're
sharing on twitter right and then at the
end
people that want to work
with real clients can look and see all
right here's the proposal leon sent
here's the contract that was signed here
is the code that was written
how did they do this how did they set up
emailing how did they all that in the
open
uh and it's not going to just be me
we're going to we're going to bring in a
lot of folks that want to work on this
[Laughter]
anonymous hey thank you for the gift it
subs don't know who you are but thank
you for being here
and uh
ac kcn minus hey thank you for the five
gifted subs as well
thank you for being here
and so
really trying to do this in the open um
have all the code open have everything
so that when somebody says i want to i
want to work with real clients they have
real examples there's no examples out
there it's just really not out there and
so i'm hoping that this is a really
strong educational tool
something that gets people excited to
build
maybe get clients of their own and then
have some references when somebody says
i want to see what a shopify site looks
like that's in production well boom
maybe the agency built one right or when
somebody says i want to see what
a static website for a restaurant looks
like boom it's all in the open and so
that's that's the idea
and we'll recruit folks that hopefully
want to join the stream team and work on
projects that you can see not just me
working on these things but a whole slew
of other folks working on stuff we're
also releasing the blog so part of the
agency site is a blog
blah is going to be leading the helm
with getting our blog we write so much
wonderful content um that we really want
all that in one central place so i think
the agencies can be a lot of fun
i think it could be a really good
educational tool really strong practical
tool i think it could be something that
can put a little bit of money in folks
pockets as they're learning um but more
importantly i think it gives you real
world experience uh that you can put on
your resume that you can say you know
what i when when the agencies when the
client site goes live and you see that
wonderful button you'd be like you know
what i built that [__] button
yeah
so that's the idea um the idea is to to
do all this in the open to build a small
yeah a small army of folks that are
crushing tickets contributing to
projects and um
getting real-world experience and then
leaving
a
a trail of work that others that are
interested in doing the same thing could
follow
that's the idea that's what i'll be
working on that's what we're going to be
doing together live and uh i hope that
you all are excited as you start to
learn more to contribute to these
tickets and have some good things come
your way
cool
like the biggest news i've been holding
in for a long time i'm really excited
uh
speaking of stream team
i i i gotta say it again we got the best
folks here that are just
popping off to help support you to help
you learn uh hundreds of you came
through with hello it's rufio before
class if you're if you're trying to do
something a little bit before class you
should join rufio streams
we also have the wolf pack in the house
look at all of this wonderful content
that mine wolf has given up their time
to help you all to do review when you
see when you see hard work that's being
assigned for homework there's probably a
good chance the wolf pack's going to be
doing it live and so
uh minewolf did the push work uh
yesterday which was that code wars
ladder uh please if you if you haven't
looked at all the wonderful content that
my wolf has put out there click the link
see all the past work and uh make sure
you join them live and you say well leon
how can i join them live how do i know
when the wolf pack is going live how do
i know when hello its rufio is going
live well
once you agree to the rules
and join a hundred devs on discord
remember if you have a gray name on
discord you haven't unlocked all the
channels yet you want to go to the join
100 dev channel you want to click the
emojis and when you click those emojis
you're going to see a bunch of other
channels open up
in the 100 dev section
is this lovely stream team it's at the
top
if you click on it you right click on it
sorry you click on it you can see
notification settings change it to all
messages
whenever somebody on the stream team
goes live you'll get a little a little a
little notification we only do it when
we're going live only when we're doing
it with coding stuff that's going to
help you learn or or be a place where
you can work together and so just just
go ahead turn it on so you get the
notifications you don't miss uh when the
wolf pack goes live all right
beautiful
when do we get more emotes we got so
many emote slots i got we gotta we gotta
i gotta hire another artist to help with
them you know
cool
and the newest member of our stream team
first stream tomorrow 11 a.m eastern
time fox is going live i know we've
rated them once before a lot of folks
have been already hanging out there
amazing amazing member of the 100 devs
community and they really want to do
work together streams co-working streams
where if you're working on stuff
specifically 100 dev stuff you can come
not do it alone hang out have some fun
and they they like to stream larger
blocks of time where it's just working
together so you ever feel a little
lonely i know when i'm coding sometimes
i'm like i just wish i could code with
others and that's why i hang out on
twitch so much um
fox is there
tomorrow 11am you'll see me send out a
message uh but if you know you're just
gonna be working come hang out work
together
two dimes said mine wolf is the best
learn so much watching their streams i
agree they're amazing
alrighty folks
uh we need to get into some review we
have lots of exciting stuff oh my gosh
project winners pokemon card winners
agencies come to fruition finally it's
been so it's been a dream of mine for so
long coming to fruition we have the
stream team taking over punch like can
we just stop for a second
you know how hard it is to grow on
twitch
and the fact that we have
so many members of the stream team
pulling hundreds of folks that's wild
it's wild to me we've taken over
uh so
uh really excited i'm really happy that
you're all here
i really appreciate each and every
single one of you that show up for class
that show up to keep pushing yourself
that haven't given up on the learning
journey that are here to be here to
unlock that career as a software
engineer i'm excited you're here we're
going to take our break because we're at
the top of the hour when we come back
we're finna make some nerds angry we're
going to review oop we're going to build
some classes together and then we should
still have like an hour left over we're
going to do a project night we're going
to build a project together we're going
to review
oop together this is the community folks
it's a community
we're all going to get there together so
let's go ahead and take our break if
you're new we like to do uh top of the
hour breaks
five minutes on a timer if you're able
please get up move around hydrate
and we'll be back in five minutes
y'all the best
[Music]
papa john's wants to smoke
they stay advertising on this stream
it's wild
it is wasting their money
it's wasting their you know what i love
the papa john ads
love them because we know we ain't
buying no papa john's it's a domino
stream what are you doing
all right folks come on back
box hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
excited for your stream tomorrow first
stream is part of the stream team
an ad for a coding diploma what
man people just be burning dollars
burning money
all right come on back folks
[Music]
come on back
all right
i would love to get in some review
and then we're going to have some time
left over
for coming together to work
in the best way possible is 100 devs uh
so
as always this is meant to be when we're
learning oop
we are learning it in real words
no big words
because big words i treated disrespect
and so we're gonna go through this
review we're gonna we're gonna get rid
of the big words we're gonna use the
knowledge we've gathered over the past
two oop classes uh to review to build
out some classes together to think
through
the big four pillars of oop and then
we're gonna do it together in small
teams
and different you gotta get that coding
diploma
uh that is such a meme gift
uh such a meme gift
i'm getting you one um but you're gonna
get one in your inbox in different
ghosts
oh boy
[Laughter]
what a
joke wow what a joke
why are they like oh my gosh so so wild
it's so wild
people out here just scheming and
scamming come on
so wild
all right
we're not using into big fancy words
we're not using any of the dusty
textbooks
right
we're not using any dusty textbooks
we're going to use language that
actually makes sense and it's gonna make
the nerds angry they spent four years
on their cs degrees and they have these
big fancy words to describe stuff that
we can describe in plain english now no
as we continue on in our coding journey
right and continue on in our coding
journey we'll add more nuance
we'll add some more sugar on top but
we're going to make it at least a little
bit of palatable right now
all right big weenie
big weenie energy exactly exactly
all right chat what are objects
what are objects
they angry
everything
objects are everything
and as we start to really understand
objects we start to see how they
impact oop right so what are objects
objects are collections
of variables and functions but we call
those
variables tied to objects properties and
we call those functions
methods beautiful
we can think of physical objects we
always like to think of something like a
like a stopwatch it has properties like
color shape brand it also has methods
like start stop reset
uniform
we can use
our classes
as like a giant factory spitting out
objects our classes have a lovely
constructor and methods that any object
that comes out of that class
will
have
cool so we can see here we're creating a
new car
and the car that comes out of this class
the object that comes out of this class
we'll have a make model and color
properties but it'll also have honk and
lock
methods beautiful
but why
what was the reason that we need to use
objects why would we need these classes
and constructors to spit out more
objects
well
what if there was a system
nay
a paradigm nay
a set of rules
agreed upon
way to structure our code
that gave us a couple really key things
what if this system made it easier for
us to add new stuff what if the system
made it easier to read through it was
already coded and what if you can make
changes that you were not afraid we're
not going to do that we're not going to
do the the sounds today i don't want to
we've done this out too much we we is
that just a chill stream we did the
chill stream
that's o.p baby
that's o.o.p
yeah that's a hope
we've had our fun we've had our fud
that's oop
right
object oriented
program
ming
exactly with the first time chat
polymorphism encapsulation heritage
abstraction
exactly let's talk about it
let's talk about it
what if we wanted to
fuse
our data and functionality
into
one thing so when we were writing our
programs up until we got into oop or
object-oriented programming
our data was all over the place in
variables
and our functionality was all over the
place
in functions and yes we might be reading
our files top to bottom but there is
nothing that
brought together that data and that
functionality it can actually cause a
lot of problems right
if your data and functionality is not
together you're really afraid that
someone further down in the program
might make changes we are all now part
of an agency we all have to work
together we want to make sure that when
we make changes we're doing it in the
right spot when we make changes we'll be
able to read all the code that's been
written before to be really important
that we can fuse
our data and functionality into one
thing and that thing
is an object so we've been using objects
but they're really important because
they give us a structure to fuse that
data and functionality into one thing
the thing being the object
and that is called encapsulation
right
bringing our
variables that were all in the ether are
functions that were all in the ether and
tying them up into one object the object
is the thing that makes us be able to do
that and when we fuse that data and
functionality together
we get encapsulation
encapsulation is the process of storing
functions with their data into one thing
so we have functions that we all know we
have data that's in our variables that
we all know and we put together together
into one thing and that's an object
that's all we mean by encapsulation just
bringing our variables together bringing
our functions together and putting it
into one thing
no sound no we're just not doing the uh
the the wildness tonight we just want to
get a quick review and so we can get to
project night
now
all right
what if
we wanted to hide
unnecessary details
what if we wanted to separate out all
the complex bits
of our programs
all right our programs are going to have
lots of different individual pieces what
if we could
separate them into different places and
only work on the things that we cared
about at that time when we joined the
agency we want to be able to just to
work on one thing well what could we do
that would help us
hide the unnecessary
help manage our complexity by enabling
us to work on just one thing at a time
well
what if we could break it into smaller
more manageable pieces of code we have
this wild code base what if we could
break it down to small and more magical
pieces of code
do stuff
once
right if we're driving a car
right we're driving a car we've built
out a whole engine if we're going to
build another car do we have to rebuild
a whole new engine now we already know
how to build an engine and if we already
know how to build an engine and we want
to fix the steering wheel do i care
about the engine no i don't care about
that if i want to fix the steering wheel
i just want to focus on the steering
wheel
right focus on the steering wheel of the
car i don't have to care about the
engine i want to be able to add the new
buttons on the steering wheel and not
lose sleep at night worrying about the
engine
so
what if there is a way to make our
our code into more manageable pieces of
code separating the engine from the
steering wheel what if we could just do
stuff once right once we build the
engine we don't have to do it again once
we build the steering wheel we don't do
it again
well that's all abstraction
baby
i love to see it i love that so many of
you knew what we were getting out to
before we hit it and this encapsulation
and this abstraction they work together
these pillars all support each other
beautiful
with abstraction we can hide details and
just show essentials it makes our code
more simple predictable manageable
now
we put in all this work
to building
well-encapsulated
well-abstracted
objects
what if there was a way to create new
objects based on old ones
right we could keep our code drier
right any new objects we wanted to
create what if we could base them on old
ones
we could eliminate a whole bunch of
redundant
code
if we could just make new objects based
on old ones we wouldn't have to
constantly retype things rebuild things
redo things and so
with
inheritance we can do that inheritance
enables us in plain language to create
new objects based on old ones that's all
it is
it's all inheritances is the ability to
create new objects based on old ones
all right
the way we do that is we can make a
class
from another class
that shares the same set of properties
and methods
right so we look at our our objects and
we can create new objects that have the
same sets of properties and methods
we can extend
one class to another exactly
trust fund
and last but not least
what if there was a piece of code
that automatically worked
with a bunch of different objects
right what if we could write code
that automatically worked with all the
different objects that we are creating
instead of messy disgusting conditionals
and switch cases instead of having to
write conditional logic and then hoping
that we remember to update that
conditional logic when we create new
objects
what if there is a way
that our code just worked with any of
the new objects we created
well that's polymorphism baby
polymorphism we can write code
that automatically works with all the
different objects that we are creating
so i hope you're noticing that these are
some pretty plain language examples
create new objects based on old ones
piece of code that works with a bunch of
different objects and i hope you get
these into your brain because that's all
it really
is
cool so those are the big four
the four pillars
what if they actually made sense
right so the goal is to keep we we had
two classes on it
we we keep reinforcing these kind of
simpler definitions these simpler
examples
right
but i want to know the reason why one
more time the reason why for each one of
these examples
well
encapsulation right is the process of
bringing our
functions
and our properties to get our properties
and methods into one
object the fusion of our data and
functionality
but why the heck do we need to fuse
our data and our functionality
well it makes it easier for us to add
new stuff
if all of our data and functionality is
in one spot
we know where to go to add new stuff
if we have an object that's all about a
car and we want to add new features to
that car we know exactly where to go we
don't need to go digging through the
rest of our code we go to the one object
where we're messing with the car
encapsulation brings that data and
functionality into one spot and once you
have that data and functionality in one
spot it makes it easier to add new stuff
then it also makes it easier to read
through what was already coded we know
all the data and functionality are in
the same spot i don't have to read 100
lines down a thousand lines down i know
if i
care about the car
i go to that object and i can see
everything that's involved with that car
since all of our data and functionality
are in the same spot
we're not afraid to make changes we know
that the data we change
will work well with the functionality
that's all part of one
object
abstraction
hiding the details showing essentials
but why
why
what is the reason that we need
abstraction
well
it makes it so that our code is smaller
and more
manageable we can split up the
complexity of a large software project
into more
manageable
parts
if i'm going to build a bunch of cars
i can just build my engine once and
never have to worry about the engine
while i'm working on the steering wheel
or i'm working on the transmission or
i'm working on the wheels i know that
the engine is fine by itself and the
changes i make on the wheels aren't
going to affect the engine uh it makes
it so that we don't have to worry about
that every single time we want to work
on a different portion of the car
and we can make changes and still sleep
at night i know when i inflate the tires
from 39 to 40
that i don't have to worry about the
engine doing something weird when i'm
focusing just on the tires and i inflate
the tires an extra psi go up by one
i don't worry what's happening in the
engine when i inflate the tires i don't
worry what's happening with the steering
wheel the steering wheel the tires the
engine are all abstracted if we are
engineers working on a car we can work
on each individual piece and not lose
sleep at night we can know we can go
home at night knowing that that extra
one psi of pressure is not going to do
something to
the engine
inheritance
making a class from another class to
share a set of properties
and methods
but why
why is inheritance
important why is this idea of making a
clash from another class to get
properties and methods important why do
we need to do this
well
it can help you eliminate
redundant code
if we are inheriting stuff from other
classes if we've already made a bunch of
properties and methods on one class
we can inherit those properties and not
have to type them all out again
it saves us a lot of time it saves us a
lot of writing of code we can get more
specialized objects but not lose
everything else
so it helps us eliminate redundancy but
also saves us a lot of time we don't
have to rewrite code over and over again
great
last of the four pillars
polymorphism
a piece of code that automatically works
with a bunch of different
objects
a piece of code that automatically works
with a bunch of different objects but
why
why does this matter what was the reason
why does polymorphism exist well
it helps you avoid if else and switch
cases it helps you write code that's
going to work naturally with all the
objects that you create so that way you
don't have to worry about having to
update
different pieces of your code as you
start working with new objects you know
that your objects are going to work with
the code that you write and you don't
lose sleep you don't have to constantly
be worried that if i make a change here
something's going to break over there
cool
it makes your code more reusable we
don't have to constantly worry about
creating new bits or bobs to support the
new things that we create the code that
we create is going to work everywhere
and it's going to work well
and polymorphism helps support the other
pillars and all these pillars work
together
and so i want to
see that in action i want to see us
working on these four pillars and i want
to see
the four pillars come together
by building some classes
so uh we have a
little bit of a coding challenge to do
together uh called let's build an agency
and so what i want to do here
is i want you to build
a class
a
contractor class
and then i want you to extend that
into two other classes a front-end
engineer class and a back-end engineer
class so front-end and back-end right so
he's already delegating the work
exactly
so i want you to build a contractor
class
and then extend it into a front end and
back end class
we have our lovely starter code today
called objects practice
and in the javascript file you'll notice
whoopsy daisy
i already have it finished
whoopsie daisy it's already finished
so what i want you to do
is highlight it all
comment it out and pretend it's not
there
but if you need to take a peek
you need to take a peek
you can rest easy knowing that it's
right there so i want you to go ahead i
want you to take we're going to put
eight minutes on the clock
and put eight minutes on the clock i
want you to try building out the
contractor class
the
front end and back end engineering class
then we're going to go over it together
and when we're done going it over
together we're going to move into our
project night
all right eight minutes on the clock
you got this dig deep you get stuck it's
already there for you
right
but put into practice the things that we
learned about right put into practice
the things we learned about as you're
building out your class think about
encapsulation as you are
building out the properties in your
class think about abstraction as you are
extending your classes think about
inheritance and then if you have a
little bit of time give me an example of
polymorphism with all the classes that
you all the objects that you could
create but i don't think we'll get there
in eight minutes we'll do that together
all right folks you got this eight
minutes on the clock
boom you need the materials they are on
discord in the follow on materials
channel
we're doing the objects practice file in
class 32.
you got this folks
try it out put in the practice the
things that we've been covering
uh the materials in the follow-on
materials channel it wasn't tied to the
actual post i posted it like right
underneath of it
and we're gonna go everything over
everything together
matthews yes six shortcuts go for it
knock yourself out that's dope
this is class 32
what are es6 shortcuts um they're just
slightly different ways of doing stuff
with the newer syntax of javascript not
something they'll worry about but
somebody asked that they could use those
things we'll eventually get into more of
them as we continue on in the course
apple juice do you write code do you
understand the concepts behind your code
then
you already are one no worries
uh pie feel free to use the names that
you care about but i'll be using the
word contractor yeah
mars we'll go over it in a few seconds
yeah explain it then
no worries clue
stark month over month
shadow i think it's cool too
janice is it an extension of front or as
an extension of contractor
think of it as like your parent and
siblings
you wouldn't extend a sibling from a
sibling
zacharino try it out have some fun
goofer i do and i do
got mine for 300 bucks though
so
oh gee no because i don't want people to
give me money
and i don't care to have a board to
report to either
miki no plans yet
never too late to join this one
ketchup cruise here to support you
richard hey congrats on the first try
bumpy i got you when we go over it
caesar you could either pass for right
now and say hey i'd be open to talking
in like three months time or do a crash
course on react and take the interview
it's up to you
i'm a big fan of saying hey i'm not open
to new opportunities right now but give
me three months and happy to talk then
yep we're covering git on monday
i'm gonna learn react here yep we're
gonna cover react towards the end
con value can be anything it could be
something that they're into a hobby of
theirs doesn't have to be code related
they like coffee talk about coffee
all right folks come on back come on
back let's take a look at this together
maryam sodev hey welcome thanks for
joining us
alright folks let's take a look at this
we cover how to make logins of course
once we get the back end
all right
i had a latte earlier pretty good hey
let's go
alrighty
so
let's go ahead and build this out
together
i want to start with a parent class and
my idea is that we're building an agency
here so we need to we need to keep track
of all the different people in the
agency so
everyone will be a contractor at the
agency
and then
we will have different folks that
specialize in different things so let's
go ahead and set up our first class
which is the contractor so we'll have a
class
of contractor
and that opens and closes uh
but i made a mistake what's the mistake
i made i always do this every single
time chat what's the mistake here
yeah you don't need the parentheses with
a class get out of here
all right so we got a lovely contractor
class
and the first thing inside the
contractor class will be our constructor
and our constructor
we're going to have what are what are
some things that our contractors might
have
what are some things that are that our
contractor might have
name
title skills i like that
i like that yeah
cool i like name and see name roll rate
i like that let's do name and roll
so we'll do
this dot name equals name
and we'll do
[Music]
and we'll go ahead and do
this dot roll equals role
and we're going to need the parameters
for this so we'll need name and we'll
need role
cool
so now when we create an object
using this constructor
it'll have a name and a role
and um
this could work but i think we learned
about something that could maybe help us
out here as well
yeah we learned about those underscores
so let's go ahead and let's just create
a contractor real quick
um let's create a contractor let's call
them
moshi for now
let moshi equal
and we'll say new contractor
and we're going to pass in the name of
the machine
and their role
is
front end
all right so they're they're front end
developer
cool let's save this real quick and
let's let's see what we get when we open
this in the browser
open in the browser
let's forget that it's the uh rig it on
logo and let's ask for moshi in the
console when we ask for moshi we get a
contractor name of the machine
and we get a roll of front end
right
so we can see that moshi is a contractor
that has the name the machine
and has the roller front end
however
let's say
we we got a new hr person at the agency
right we got a new hr person at the
agency
and they realized that moshi goes by
moshi and not the machine
right so the hr person thinking that
they're doing something good
goes in and does moshi dot name
and sets it equal to
moshi
great now if we ask for moshi back
we can see that the name has been
updated
why might this be a
bad idea why would we need to fire hr
why why wha what is what is this here
what is this or not hr but we might need
to fire some engineers right
what happened what's bad about this
because toby sucks
it's not abstracted
if anyone on our team can just come in
and start changing properties and stuff
willy-nilly
how could we ever sleep at night knowing
that at any point in the future someone
could change something so fundamental as
a name right anyone can mess with it
exactly so we really want to be able to
abstract out the name and abstract out
the role so that someone doesn't
accidentally mess with it later on
right someone doesn't accidentally mess
with it later on so let's go back to our
code
is there a way that we could make it so
that when we create a contractor
hr can't go in and mess up the names
brook leak just said underscore
yeah we can use underscores so we can do
underscore name
underscore role and now when we pass in
the machine
the machine is going into name
so wherever we see name is the machine
but it's no longer tied to the name it's
tied to underscore name that'll be the
property on our object will be
underscore name and then front end we'll
go into roll and we'll wind up having
underscore roll with the prop with the
the underscore rule with the value of
front end
right
with front end
so
let's go ahead and
save this
right
and
let's go ahead and see
what the heck is going on
let's go ahead and see what's going on
all right
let's try this again now let's save this
let's go back
and let's go ahead and call mashi again
beautiful
we have moshi
right
and now let's see if
hr can go in
and mess with the name
cool so we did that
we we go and we asked for moshi dot name
wait a minute
they could think he's still changing
what the heck's going on
i thought i thought we said if we use
the underscores it would do something
what
huh
oh
you you all said in chat underscore
yeah i'm not using a getter
i'm not using a getter so we got to do a
getter let's go ahead and do get
and we'll say name
and we're going to return
this dot underscore name
beautiful
this underscore name
beautiful so now when we do it
and we ask for
the name
this lovely
getter is what's going to go ahead and
get the name and it's going to go ahead
and get our underscore name so let's go
ahead and save this let's go back to our
site now and see if hr can can be a
baddie
all right so we asked for moshi
you can see that moshi has the name of
the machine
if i do mashi.name equals
moshi not the machine
and i asked for moshi back
we can still see that the name of mashi
is still
the machine
tina works in hr
and we can still see that the name is
the machine so
hr can go wild trying to change the name
and uh nothing's gonna happen to the
actual object it's been abstracted away
we we're not we don't we're not gonna
mess with it which makes our lives as
engineers a little bit easier because we
know that we can be working on stuff and
not messing up the objects that we've
already created
cool
beautiful
now
let's go ahead and let's let's do
something that's that's a little
forbidden
let's do something a little forbidden
all right what if we did what if we did
moshi dot underscore name
right what if we did underscore name
equals doggo
all right what if we did that now we ask
for moshi we can see that the name has
been changed wait a minute hold up leon
he said we use the underscore and we use
the getter
what's going on here
so we can see that if you do change the
underscore name
where it catch me outside
do you know
catch me outside
she made 50 million dollars
million dollars
off of of
million
i'm [__] up
that's all i got to say
and it's your fault
y'all have not gotten to the million
channel points for me to unlock my off
and uh i'm actually kind of just mad at
y'all
uh because i'm [__] up now and it's
your fault
somebody get to the million channel
points unlock the only fans i got i
can't wait
can't wait i'm hiring a really good
tasteful photographer we're gonna have
lots it's gonna be a full shoot
can't wait somebody get me there
right so wait a minute we said wait wait
wait let's go back and look at this code
wait a minute you said leon
this underscore makes it private right
so that like we don't mess with it
well wait a minute does the underscore
actually do anything chat
does it do anything special
nah it's not doing anything special but
it's a convention it's something that
we're going to agree to that whenever we
see an underscore don't [__] touch it
don't touch it
so when you join
the agency
you will get a coding guide
a a set of documentation that describes
our style and how we write code and one
of the lines in that style guide will be
if you ever see an underscore for a
property you don't touch it that's
private you shouldn't mess with it uh if
you do mess with it you're gonna be
talking to hr
right so we agree don't touch
and then we only access it through our
getter so this makes our code
nice nicely encapsulated we got our we
got our properties here but what about
some functionality what's some
functionality that we can add here
what do we want our contractor to be
able to do
do work say hello yeah let's do say
hello
so we want all of our contractors to be
friendly and be able to say hello and so
we want our country to be able to say
hello so we can say um
uh let's just put a console log here
console.lob console.log we'll say we'll
do ticks we can use a template string we
say
hello
my
name is and we can use our template
string here we can say this dot
underscore name
and
i'm
on the
and we can go ahead and do
uh this
underscore role
and we'll do team
there we go hello my name is blank and i
am on the blank team
um looking good
uh we forgot something so far what what
have we forgotten so far
sorry yes we shouldn't be saying oh f
anymore we should be saying blip now
we're we're we're making a blip account
not not an off account we're we're we're
supporting vape juice and true
yeah we need a getter for for
for our roll
exactly so let's go and do a getter for
our roll get
roll
return
this
dot underscore roll beautiful
and so we're looking good here we have a
getter for our name a getter for our
roll we have a say hello our data in
this case name and role is nicely
encapsulated with our functionality
which is say hello
all right which is say hello
and if we go ahead and save this and run
it we should be able to see it working
so let's go ahead and ask for moshi back
we can see it's a contractor they have a
name in the machine they have a role of
front end if we do moshi dot say hello
you get hello my name is the machine and
i'm on the front end team so it's
working good
excuse me excuse me excuse me
looking good
all right
i'm the machine pleased to meet you
okay so we we we now have the ability
to add contractors
uh to our agency which is feeling which
is feeling pretty good
uh now
we are gonna have different teams within
the agency we're gonna have a front-end
team we're gonna have a back-end team
and so
um
let's go ahead and build out two more
classes
that enable us to extend
uh this lovely
this lovely contractor class
right
and so i'm gonna go ahead and create
what type of teams do you think we
should have
i already said we have front end and
back end team so let's go ahead and
build a class for our front-end team
cool extendo i got the extendo
let's go all right so let's go and do
class
we'll call it front for front end
developers we'll call it back for back
end developers front to front my baby
back to back uh baby all right so front
extends
contractor
cool
and if i want inside of my constructor
right inside of my constructor i know
i'm going to have
the name
and role still
but if i want to be able to use
the name and roll
from contractor what do i need
super yeah we can do super
and we can pass in name and roll and so
what super is going to enable us to do
is when front sees super
super is going to be able to grab
the values
that are here
in the constructor on the parent
class
this is a little bit of inheritance that
stops us from having from having to do
what what does this little bit of
inheritance stop us from needing to do
yeah it stops us from having to repeat
code i don't have to repeat giving a
name and a role to any of my front-end
developers
right it makes it so that we're not
repeating code a little bit of
inheritance can go a long way beautiful
so we inherited the name and role
from our
from our constructor class
um but let's let's make it so that the
front end developers have something
different um front-end developers
probably use some different technology
than a back-end developer would use um
so maybe we can have a new
a new thing called technology technology
right so i'm going to call it i'm going
to pass in a parameter of tech and then
i'm going to do this dot underscore tech
equals tech so when i create a front-end
developer i can pass in the technology
that they're comfortable with maybe like
react right html css javascripts exactly
cool
and then
i want my front end
uh to have some some functionality but
before we get to the functionality what
do we got to set up for this this uh
class
before we add some functionality what do
we got to set up
yeah i gotta set up our getter
get
tech
and we're going to say return
this the underscore
this dot underscore tech
um and so when they ask for tech they'll
get this underscore tech back
and uh let's add some functionality
i want them to have their own version of
say hello
so they're gonna have same they're gonna
have their own version of say hello
and i want that say hello
to be kind of similar
but i'm going to make it say something a
little bit different
um
hello
it's me
um
yeah you say hello
i am
uh
this dot underscore name
and
i work
on the
front end
beautiful
hello
it's me
california dreaming
about we used to be
[Music]
sorry i got to stop before we get uh
copyrighted
cool
hello my name is
killed my father prepare to die
cool
all right looks good i like that
somebody said what's happening on line
line 22 is giving us access whenever you
see super that means go up a level
right means go up a level so super
enables us to get access
to the properties here that were set on
our
parent
class all right
all right
and so super just enables us to go up
and yoink grab this stuff so we don't
have to repeat
our code down here it's that little bit
of inheritance coming into play
cool
for the underscore thing can you use uh
octothorpe to make it private well
remember is the underscore actually
doing anything
is the underscore doing anything
is it special to javascript in any way
nah
it's a convention
and so different teams are going to have
different conventions if you're joining
our agency the convention is the
underscore and that means don't touch
right but could you use a different one
sure
all right
so we got our own kind of say hello it's
looking good it's looking crispy let's
create a new let's create a let's create
a uh
instead of doing a new contractor let's
do a new front end developer so we'll do
front
and we'll pass in the machine
we will pass in
the role which is front
end and we'll pass in the technology
that they use which is react
cool
let's go ahead and
come back here let's refresh
let's ask for moshi
and now you can see moshi is actually an
object coming out of the front class
you see they have a name of the machine
a roller front end and they have a tech
of react and something cool is if we do
moshi dot
say hello
you can see we get that slightly
different we get that slightly different
console log hello i am the machine and i
work on the front end beautiful
am i using moshi to test your code to
make sure it's working correctly exactly
i'm just making sure that everything
we're doing building out here is working
all right
so we are using super in the child
classes to get the contract stuff that
was built in the contractor class
exactly
all right
let's keep pushing
so now we have a front end developer
that extends contractor let's do the
same thing for a back end
um so let's go ahead and
i'm gonna copy and paste ugh
don't ever copy and paste but we're we
need to save some times here
all right so
now we're gonna make this back
which extends contractor
we still have the kind of new things
that we added i'm just going to change
this say hello to
back end
cool back end
now
we could say all right leon well
shouldn't we have like
if we're building out the full agency we
might have some contractors and some
contractors might be designers some
contractors might be
developers so leon shouldn't we have a
developer class that inherits from
contractor that then we could make
additional children classes or
subclasses that are front and back end
and if if you were asking that question
i would say heck yeah that sounds great
seems like you're thinking in an
object-oriented way
but we don't have time so
[Laughter]
that's something that you might do
tonight during the project night oh oh
who would have thought
maybe doing something oh project um
but i'm glad you're thinking that way
because that means you're thinking in an
object-oriented way beautiful
make a junior class and ban anyone who
uses it exactly
all right
so now we got a back end of we got a
back end class we got a front end class
we got a contractor class uh let's
create another uh contractor here let
simba
equal new
new back
and their name is simba
and
um they are on the
back end team
and they use
[Music]
node all right
now we got two contractors let's see
let's look at moshi
beautiful a lovely front end developer
we have simba
whoop
not that
come on now
we have simba
what
oh
why is it doing this to me
i don't care about svg animated boolean
what is this
no
all right there we go simba is not
defined why would simba not be defined
or is someone not be defined if we look
simba's right there
why is simba not defined
because i didn't refresh let's go ahead
and refresh let's try it again
boom gotcha
13th try
you got got
don't forget folks just because we're
fancy now just because we're fancy now
just because you're like leon
you created a constructor cl a
contractor class that's really just
syntactical sugar on top of constructors
i see that you created your constructor
with some lovely private properties here
when we see the underscore it means
don't touch
and to access those properties we set up
some getters that return those private
properties i saw that you have a lovely
method here called say hello that is
using those private
properties and then i saw that you
extended your parent class into a front
and back class that still has access
still has access to the name and role of
the properties that were defined in the
parent class i see you did that using
the super keyword i saw that you still
had some other private properties that
you set up getters for i saw that your
say hello method was a little bit
different on the front end and the back
end
classes i saw that you did all that
right i saw that you did all that
but you forgot to refresh
[Laughter]
just because we fancy now just because
we can read all this code just because
we can do all these cool things just
because we're object oriented we're
using oop you know me in our day-to-day
lives does it mean
that refreshing
is beneath us
it happens
cool
should we merge tech into the parent
that's a good idea to bring to project
night
good i idea to big project night
all right
we need to take a little bit of a break
because we're at the top of the hour
when we come back from break we're going
to quickly read through this again we're
going to see a little bit of
polymorphism just a sprinkle of
polymorphism and then we're going to
move into project now you don't want to
miss project night so let's go ahead
we're at the top of that let's take our
brick when we come back we're adding
polymorphism into the mix here we're
walking through it one more time we're
going to see super again we're going to
see private again we're going to talk
through those things again
right
and then
we will add polymorphism and then we'll
move into project night
here we go hey
well you can change that you don't know
how to code you can change it to x-men
point 100 devs happy you're here you
found the right spot
all right folks five minutes on the
clock here
we're new around here we'd like to take
breaks at the top of the hour to be
healthy save our fingers our eyes were
in this for the long haul
marathon not a sprint this is a career
for the rest of our lives i'll see you
all in
five
yeah no worries jim come on back folks
look at this together
alrighty
boom
california dreaming
about who we used to be
when we were younger
alrighty come on back let's just review
this quickly and then we will move into
project night
alrighty so we saw some things here
let's let's talk through it
what about this is encapsulation
about this is encapsulation
yeah we got our methods and our
properties in one spot
all right we got our we got our lovely
methods
and so our lovely properties and our
lovely methods in one spot we have fused
our data and our functionality into one
location if we wanted to add more stuff
about our contractor do we know where to
go
if we want to add more stuff about our
contractor do we know where to go
yeah
if we wanted to add more stuff about our
front end developers or our backend
developers do we know where to go
yeah and if i wanted to work on my front
end developer
am i worried about messing with anything
in my back end developer
like if i just want to add a bunch of
stuff to my front end developers right
like we got we have a lot of a lot of
clients coming in that just need
front-end work can i just can i just
focus in on this front-end developer do
i do i if i make any changes in here do
i do i worry about what's happening in
the backend developer
no
even things like even things that are
shared right we have this super that
gets shared up to the contractor right
but um am i worried about that what is
that an example of if i can make changes
here
right make changes here but not worry
about it
yeah it's a form of abstraction right
we're extract like encapsulation and
abstraction are pretty closely related
right
so it's a form of abstraction we also
have another form of abstraction coming
in happening here where we are making it
so that individuals can access stuff but
they can't mess with stuff
we're giving them access but making sure
they can't mess with it we're extracting
out the complexity the details right so
there's an example there of abstraction
as well
nerds are shaking in their boots
all right
encapsulation can enable abstraction
yeah exactly and so we have some
examples of encapsulation we have some
examples of abstraction
what's an example of inheritance that's
happening here
yeah we see the super the super enables
us to inherit the name and the roles
properties from the contractor and as
stuff gets way more complex we're going
to be inheriting more and more and that
super enables us to go from the child
class or the subclass into the parent
class and get access to all that stuff
without having to rewrite it down here
so you can imagine as as our our
contractor gets bigger and bigger and
that constructor gets meatier and medium
and there's more and more stuff there
there's more and more methods up there
well we get access to all of it because
we're inheriting it
right we're inheriting it
we could also do something like this
let's say um
say bye
all right let's do say bye
console.log
has been
a pleasure
working
with you
all right say bye all right let's save
this let's go back let's go ahead and go
to
uh let's refresh
let's take a look at simba
let's do simba dot say
bye
how the heck does simba
know how to say bye
simba is a back end engineer
[Laughter]
civ is a vacuum engineer how do they
know how to say goodbye how do they know
how to talk the clients
how do they know how to talk the client
do we look
our back end engineer doesn't have a say
goodbye
right how do they know how to say
back to the dungeon exactly
oh
because back extends contractor so
that's another example of inheritance
right we went up the prototype chain to
get say bye because remember this class
stuff has a syntactical sugar on the
prototype chain
uh simba did not have say goodbye so it
went up to the class constructor sorry
to the the class contractor and it got
say bye so another form of inheritance
there
right beautiful
cool
all right
um so we got good examples of
encapsulation some good examples of
hey
zeke the caddo hey thank you for the
five get the subs i appreciate that
thank you for being here
so we got lovely examples of
encapsulation abstraction inheritance
but we still need to see a little bit
example of polymorphism here
how about we
we have these lovely
these lovely contractors
let's uh
let's go ahead and add them to an array
like i want i want to have like a a list
of all the contractors in the agency
right we're gonna have all these
different contractors at the agency so
let's say
agency uh list equal
and we have moshi
and we have simba
right so now we have we have an array
a list of all the folks that are at our
agency we have moshi simba and
eventually we have a lot more folks
i want to make sure that every person
that works at this agency
knows how to say
hello it's very important
it's very important
that uh that we make sure that all of
our our our members of the agency know
how to work well
with uh clients so i could just like a
simple for loop here
and i could say all right
we could say we can just say like like
each person in the agency or each
contractor in the agency let's just say
person because it's a different word uh
and we can say each person of the agency
list
right each person of the agency list
i want each of those persons to say
hello
so what this is going to do
is it's going to loop through our agency
list we can see our agency list has two
contractors in it moshi and simba so
this for loop should run two times the
first time person will be
moshi and then the second time last time
this loop runs person will be simba and
so if we save this and we go back
we go back
we can see that hey i'm the machine and
i work on the front end and hello i am
simba and i work on the back end so the
say hello
the say hello
worked on both
mashi
and simba
mashi and simba
why the heck these are completely
different objects
one is a front end and one is a back end
yet say hello works on both of them
what is that
why does that work
yeah polymorphism exactly it works by
polymorphism and polymorphism makes it
so that we can write some code and know
that it works for
all of our
objects we don't have to worry about
having like a messy conditional or a
switch case where we check to see if
they're a front-end developer and then
we say one thing we check to see if
they're back in developer and says
another thing
we just know that it's gonna run on
every single object that we've created
and so polymorphism supports the other
pillars so that we don't have to have
this nasty code to keep up to date it
just works
um
what is person person is just a
parameter sorry not a parameter it's
just a variable here so instead of
saying like let i equal we have this
like fancier new syntax of doing for
loops so whatever i put here
i could put like
robot unicorn and then robot unicorn
will hold moshi and simba and so then i
have to change this to
robot unicorn right so it's kind of like
how we'd have i in our other for loops
like we would declare i uh well robot
unicorn is the variable that we're using
and then robot unicorn will hold each
value that's inside of that array and so
same thing will work we can save it we
can go back and refresh and we still get
the same thing
difference between four and four of
objects and arrays
yeah it's an iterator yeah i can think
of as an iterator yeah
cool
alrighty
wonderful wonderful folks
alrighty so we covered a lot over the
past
two three classes a lot of really new
meaty topics
right a lot of stuff that we could still
probably play around with a little bit
for a while um can we extend
can we send children into new children
can we can we make polymorphism do more
what happens if we drop the underscores
there's a lot of stuff that you need to
explore
right a lot of stuff you need to explore
and that you can have fun with and build
but exploring and building by yourself
is boring
right
who wants to build and explore by
themselves so
we have a lovely
group work or project night
and so
we're not going to do a raid we're going
to jump right onto remo or we're gonna
jump on to discord so if remo doesn't
work for you you can jump on the discord
you'll notice on remo there are certain
tables on each floor for
chat only work so we have some folks
that don't really want to do
video and voice you'll notice that there
are two tables on each floor for chat
only so for folks that might have a
little bit of anxiety of being on voice
and being on video you now have some
chat only tables
or folks that just don't have mic or or
or camera there will be some chat only
tables so feel free to
join one of those tables if that fits
you otherwise you'll see that there are
two lovely remo links
if remo does not work for you you can
always jump on
discord and so what i want you to do is
i want you to get into groups tonight we
got like 40 minutes left we got like 40
minutes left and so for these 40 minutes
i want you to get into a group
and i want you to talk through some of
the basics of oop i want you to come up
with a parent class
extend that parent class into at least
two children i don't care what it is it
could be contractors it could be
espresso machines it could be cars
and then once you've done that once
you've built out together the parent
class the children class you should talk
through encapsulation extraction
inheritance polymorphism all the things
that we cover together talk through
these things explain them if you're in a
group with somebody that doesn't get it
make sure they get it if you feel like
you're light years ahead and you really
understand oop take a chance and some
time to explain it to others your
knowledge will solidify and you'll help
somebody figure out a little bit more so
work together work collaboratively
as always be
kind
if you if you say anything on remo or
discord it's not the kindest thing you
could say you're [__] up you don't
belong here uh
and if somebody ever steps their
boundaries just let us know send us a
mod mail we're happy to deal with it so
let's go ahead get together on remo or
discord talk through oop build a parent
class extend it to two children talk
about how you're using encapsulation
abstraction inheritance polymorphism
and if you have a little bit of time
feel free to maybe also discuss
tic-tac-toe but i think this will take
up most of your time so we're going to
do that
your homework your homework due next
week is to play review break the code
we've gone over the past few classes
make sure you're done your professional
checklist we have to get to async await
and promises but next week we start the
haunt
right we start the hunt and so to start
the hunt i need you to have that
professional checklist done
yeah yeah baby that's right that's right
we going we're on the hunt so please
make sure you have your professional
checklist done
uh make sure uh that you know what
you're doing in terms of getting the
client we had that little bit of an
extension so make sure you're either
getting that paid client that
volunteering contributing the free
software
and we have a new code wars ladder for
you so you did an array ladder i want
you to do a string ladder if you want to
push that's push work
alrighty folks let's jump over to remo
we're not going to do a raid we're going
to jump right over to remo or discord
you're behind great join a table get
caught up
there your links
beautiful
i'll see you all over there
all right everybody have a wonderful
night have a wonderful weekend remember
no stream on sunday remember tomorrow we
have fox's first stream of the stream
team starting at 11am i'll be there and
then we're back on monday for get bowl
alright folks i will see you on discord
i will see you on remo have a good night
good luck working through your
encapsulation abstraction your wonderful
bits
of polymorphism and inheritance peace
everybody